---
layout: post
title:  "Reading in 2016"
date:   2017-06-17 18:00:00
categories: reading
---
Here are the 15 books I read in 2016:

<!--more-->

1. Man's Search for Meaning by Victor Frankl (4/5) on [01-06-2016]
   
   > The first part of this book is a brief biography covering Victor Frankl's time in Nazi concentration camps and the second is an introduction to *Logotherapy*.
   >
   > I found the second part of the book way more interesting, for example these words stuck with me: *"Sunday neurosis, that kind of depression which afflicts people who become aware of the lack of content in their lives when the rush of the busy week is over and the void within themselves becomes manifest."*

2. Faerie Tale by Raymond Feist (2.5/5) on [01-16-2016]

   > The sexual imagery in the book was often disturbing and some of the characters were unrealistic - Gabbie for instance is a stunningly beautiful millionaire heiress who has a good head on her shoulders.

3. A Moveable Feast by Ernest Hemingway (4.5/5) on [01-18-2016]

   > This is a light and enjoyable memoir of Hemingway's time in Paris. Mixed in with a glimpse into his writing life are vignettes of his friends and acquaintences. What a group they were - James Joyce, F. Scott Fitzgerald, Pablo Picasso..

4. Claudius the God: And His Wife Messalina  by Robert Graves (2.5/5) on [01-31-2016]

   > I didn't enjoy this as much as *I, Claudius*

5. The Ocean at the End of the Lane by Neil Gaiman (4/5) on [02-05-2016]

   > The mysterious and timeless Hempstock women were fascinating characters. I liked this way more than Neil Gaiman's *Anansi Boys* which I read a few years ago.

6. A Country Doctor's Notebook by Mikhail Bulgakov (4.5/5) on [03-26-2016]

   > These are a series of stories about Bulgakov's time in a remote rural hospital. He had just graduated from medical college and was sent off to run a clinic without any other doctors to support or guide him.
   > 
   > Being so fresh out of university he was petrified of encountering a case he had no idea how to handle. However, when a young girl who suffered a horrific accident that crushed her legs is brought to him he manages to amputate her leg and save her life. After that he became famous and often saw about a hundred patients a day!
   >
   > One line that I particularly like is at the end of a chapter where Bulgakov manages to perform a tricky childbirth successfully: *'One can gain a lot of experience in a country practice', I thought as I fell asleep, 'but even so one must go on and on reading, reading...more and more..'*

7. Words of Radiance (The Stormlight Archive, Book 2) by Brandon Sanderson (4/5) on [04-01-2016]

   > This book has an excruciatingly slow first portion where nothing much happens. Just like the first book in this series, however, it gradually built up to a very exciting second-half.
   >
   > I hope Sanderson leaves out the fat from the other books in this series (he's still writing them).
   
8. Tender is the Night by F. Scott Fitzgerald (4.5/5) on [04-12-2016]

   > Dick Diver is a promising young psychiatrist who moves to Europe and begins a slow and terrible decline when he marries a wealthy American woman who is recovering from schizophrenia.
   >
   > Book one in this novel is centered around Rosemary, a young actress touring with her mother, who meets Dick at a resort and falls in love with him. I found it an absolute drag to read. No amount of beautiful prose was able to elevate what are essentially humdrum events.
   >
   > The rest of the novel, starting from book two which is a flashback to when Dick first encounters his future wife Nicole, seemed very, very different to me in substance as well as style. If I had stopped reading at book one I would have rated this as a 2/5. If I had skipped book one and read the rest I would have rated it as 5/5.
   >
   > Here is a line I enjoyed: *These dead, he knew them all, their weather-beaten faces with blue flashing eyes, the spare violent bodies, the souls made of new earth in the forest-heavy darkness of the seventeenth century.*
   >
   > *"Good-by my father - good-by all my fathers"*
   
9. The Hawk in the Rain by Ted Hughes (3.5/5) on [04-16-2016]

   > I expected the poems in this collection to all be about animals but only a handful of them were. Instead, they cover a wide range of topics - war, religion, marriage, etc. My favorite poem was *The Jaguar* which ends:
   >
   > *His stride is wildernesses of freedom:   
   > The world rolls under the long thrust of his heel.  
   > Over the cage floor the horizons come.*

10. Nip the Buds, Shoot the Kids by Kenzaburo Oe (3/5) on [07-30-2016]

    > While an interesting book about boarding school boys in wartime Japan, I didn't enjoy it as much as *A Personal Matter*.

11. Rising Sun by Michael Crichton (3/5) on [08-13-2016]

    > This isn't the most thrilling murder-mystery I've read but it was an interesting and seemingly accurate depiction of Japanese culture. Shortly before starting this book I had given up reading James Clavell's *Noble House* which has a relatively crude and ridiculous take on the Chinese people - so Crichton's nuanced take on the Japanese people was refreshing.
    >
    > Crichton makes no secret of the fact that he disapproves of Japanese economic influence in America - he accuses them of price-fixing, illegally increasing market share by dumping products, etc.

12. The Tombs of Atuan (EarthSea Cycle #2) by Ursula K. Le Guin (3/5) on [08-24-2016]

    > This is a short, easy book where not much happens. It isn't bad per se but it felt like I was reading filler material that was just setting the stage for bigger events to come in the *EarthSea* series.
    >
    > Interestingly, in the afterword Le Guin says that she wasn't planning a series originally and when she wrote *The Tombs of Atuan* it was meant as a sequel and nothing more.

13. Under the Banner of Heaven by Jon Krakauer (4/5) on [10-01-2016]

    > Prior to reading this book my only exposure to Mormonism had been watching HBO's *Big Love*, a show about polygamist Mormons. So it was fascinating to read about how a major religion arose, as Krakauer puts it, in the brightly lit age of the affidavit and the printing press.
    >
    > The book covers a lot of ground but it mostly focuses on Ron and Dan Lafferty - two fundamentalist Mormons who brutally murdered their sister-in-law and her infant daughter in order to fulfill a "revelation" from god.

14. The Blood Gospel by James Rollins and Rebecca Cantrell (4.5/5) on [10-09-2016]

    > I heard about this book when I saw a colleague walking to work and reading this book at the same time. I asked him for the name and once I checked it out of the library I found that it was as exciting as I had hoped.
    >
    > It is also very inventive blasphemy of Catholic theology.

15. Babbitt by Sinclair Lewis (5/5) on [10-31-2016]

    > This is a beautiful and articulate satire of an American middle-class man. To me this seemed like a staid predecessor of Joseph Heller's *Something Happened* - a book that was published more than fifty years after *Babbitt*. Both books center on the inner life of average men leading average lives in average America.
    >
    > Through most of the book Babbitt is an unthinking conformist - sometimes to the point of comical hypocrisy when he rails against unions:
    > 
    > *All labor agitators who try to force men to join a union should be hanged.....every business man ought to belong to an employers'-association and to the Chamer of Commerce. In union there is strength. So any selfish hog who doesn't join the Chamber of Commerce ought to be forced to.*
    > 
    > At the end of the book although Babbitt hasn't really rebelled against society he manages to maintain his self respect and independence in a very satisfying ending.