---
layout: post
title:  "LOCK plot system"
date:   2015-11-08 08:45:00
categories: writing
---
James Scott Bell's book *Plot & Structure* introduces a set of principles to create good plots called the LOCK system. 

<!--more-->

## LOCK
From the book:

**L**ead

> "A strong plot starts with an interesting Lead character. In the best plots, that lead is compelling, someone we have to watch throughout the course of the novel"

**O**bjective

> "Objective is the driving force of fiction. It generates forward motion and keeps the Lead from just sitting around. ..two forms: to get something or to get away from something"

**C**onfrontation

> "Opposition from characters and outside forces brings your story full to life. If your Lead moves towards his objective without anything in his way, we deprive readers of what they secretly want: worry. Readers want to fret about the Lead, keeping an intense emotional involvement all the way through the novel."

I agree with this wholeheartedly. The reason I found the TV series *Sons of Anarchy* so compelling is that the motorcycle club constantly faces new challenges and obstacles.

**K**nockout

> "Readers of commercial fiction want to see a knockout at the end"

The reference to commercial fiction makes me think that this system is geared more towards people who want to write thrillers. However, even literary fiction can end with a 'knockout', for example consider one of the last paragraphs of William Faulkner's *The Sound and the Fury*:

> For an instant Ben sat in an utter hiatus. Then he bellowed. Bellow on bellow, his voice mounted, with scarce interval for breath. There was more than astonishment in it, it was horror; shock; agony eyeless, tongueless; just sound, and Luster’s eyes backrolling for a white instant. “Gret God,” he said. “Hush! Hush! Gret God!”

##Won't this lead to formulaic writing?

If you're worried that following these rules will lead to formulaic writing and stories, James says there are some elements that you can and should vary to make your writing original:

* Characters 

* Setting

> "Readers love to hear the details of other people's working lives"

* Dialogue

> "..make sure your characters have unique ways of speaking. No two characters should sound exactly alike. And second, the words they use should tell us something about who they are"