---
layout: post
title:  "TIL#12"
date:   2016-11-24 15:00:00
categories: TIL
---

**How are owners for new Windows files/folders set?**

From [TechNet](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc961992.aspx):

> The default owner is normally an individual - the user who is currently logged on. The only exceptions occur when the user is a member of either the Administrators group or the Domain Admins group. In both cases, the Owner field in the user's access token contains the SID for the group, not the SID for the individual user account. The assumption is that administrative accounts are used only to administer the system and not for any individual purpose. 
> 
>  It is never possible to give ownership of an object to another user. If you want to transfer ownership of an object, you must give another user permission to take ownership and then wait until the other user takes it.

**How does Android figure out the entry point class?**

AndroidManifest.xml has an activity that filters for android.intent.action.MAIN

        <activity android:name=".MainActivity">
            <intent-filter>
                <action android:name="android.intent.action.MAIN" />
                <category android:name="android.intent.category.LAUNCHER" />
            </intent-filter>
        </activity>

From [StackOverflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/25219551/what-is-the-meaning-of-android-intent-action-main):

> ACTION_MAIN is considered an entry point for the application. Usually, it combines with CATEGORY_LAUNCHER in an \<intent-filter\> to indicate an activity that should appear in the home screen's launcher, or in anything else that considers itself to be a launcher. Such "launchers" can query PackageManager, using queryIntentActivities(), to find such activities and display them to the user.
> 
> However, ACTION_MAIN can be used in combination with other categories for other specialized purposes. For example, CATEGORY_CAR_DOCK with ACTION_MAIN indicates an activity that should be considered a candidate to be shown when the user drops their phone into a manufacturer-supplied car dock.

This means that if you have multiple activities with action.MAIN and category.LAUNCHER the Android OS will show multiple icons on the apps  screen for your app. Each icon will launch a different activity.